content/client/windows/MSI/_index.en.md, before:

---
title: MSI
weight: 49
---

The MSI package supports command line parameters for silent installation.

### Parameters

### INSTALLFOLDER

The installation folder.

**Default**: `[ProgramFiles6432Folder]\[app name]`, usually `C:\Program Files\[app name]`.


### CREATESTARTMENUSHORTCUTS

Whether to create a start menu shortcut.

**Default**:
1. Install. Defaults to `1`.
2. Upgrade. Defaults to the last installed options.

| No | Value | Desc |
| :---: | :---: | :---: |
| 1 | `1` | Yes |
| 2 | `0` | No |
| 3 | `Y` | Yes, same as `1` |
| 4 | `N` | No, same as `0` |

### CREATEDESKTOPSHORTCUTS

Whether to create a desktop shortcut.

**Default**:
1. Install. Defaults to `1`.
2. Upgrade. Defaults to the last installed options.

| No | Value | Desc |
| :---: | :---: | :---: |
| 1 | `1` | Yes |
| 2 | `0` | No |
| 3 | `Y` | Yes, same as `1` |
| 4 | `N` | No, same as `0` |

## Examples

**Caution**: For versions prior to `2024-08-05`, there are issues with silent installation and silent repair. Please uninstall first, then install.

### Install with installation parameters

Silent installation, set the installation path, do not create a desktop shortcut, create a start menu shortcut.

```
msiexec /i RustDesk-1.msi /qn INSTALLFOLDER="D:\Program Files\RustDesk" CREATESTARTMENUSHORTCUTS="Y" CREATEDESKTOPSHORTCUTS="N" /l*v install.log
```

**Note**: `/l*v install.log` means printing the execution log to `install.log`.

### Upgrade, without parameters

Upgrade with the previous installation path and installation options.

```
msiexec /i RustDesk-2.msi /qn /l*v install.log
```

### Upgrade, modify installation options

```
msiexec /i RustDesk-1.msi /qn INSTALLFOLDER="C:\Program Files\RustDesk" CREATESTARTMENUSHORTCUTS="N" CREATEDESKTOPSHORTCUTS="N" /l*v install.log
```

Commit message:

msi option, printer
Signed-off-by: fufesou <linlong1266@gmail.com>

content/client/windows/MSI/_index.en.md, after:

---
title: MSI
weight: 49
---

The MSI package supports command line parameters for silent installation.

### Parameters

### INSTALLFOLDER

The installation folder.

**Default**: `[ProgramFiles6432Folder]\[app name]`, usually `C:\Program Files\[app name]`.


### CREATESTARTMENUSHORTCUTS

Whether to create a start menu shortcut.

**Default**:
1. Install. Defaults to `1`.
2. Upgrade. Defaults to the last installed options.

| No | Value | Desc |
| :---: | :---: | :---: |
| 1 | `1` | Yes |
| 2 | `0` | No |
| 3 | `Y` | Yes, same as `1` |
| 4 | `N` | No, same as `0` |

### CREATEDESKTOPSHORTCUTS

Whether to create a desktop shortcut.

**Default**:
1. Install. Defaults to `1`.
2. Upgrade. Defaults to the last installed options.

| No | Value | Desc |
| :---: | :---: | :---: |
| 1 | `1` | Yes |
| 2 | `0` | No |
| 3 | `Y` | Yes, same as `1` |
| 4 | `N` | No, same as `0` |

### INSTALLPRINTER

Whether to install a printer. The printer is used to execute the print jobs of the controlled side locally.

Since version `1.3.9`.

**Default**:
1. Install. Defaults to `1`.
2. Upgrade. Defaults to the last installed options.

| No | Value | Desc |
| :---: | :---: | :---: |
| 1 | `1` | Yes |
| 2 | `0` | No |
| 3 | `Y` | Yes, same as `1` |
| 4 | `N` | No, same as `0` |

## Examples

**Caution**: For versions prior to `2024-08-05`, there are issues with silent installation and silent repair. Please uninstall first, then install.

### Install with installation parameters

Silent installation, set the installation path, do not create a desktop shortcut, create a start menu shortcut.

```
msiexec /i RustDesk-1.msi /qn INSTALLFOLDER="D:\Program Files\RustDesk" CREATESTARTMENUSHORTCUTS="Y" CREATEDESKTOPSHORTCUTS="N" INSTALLPRINTER="N" /l*v install.log
```

**Note**: `/l*v install.log` means printing the execution log to `install.log`.

### Upgrade, without parameters

Upgrade with the previous installation path and installation options.

```
msiexec /i RustDesk-2.msi /qn /l*v install.log
```

### Upgrade, modify installation options

```
msiexec /i RustDesk-1.msi /qn INSTALLFOLDER="C:\Program Files\RustDesk" CREATESTARTMENUSHORTCUTS="N" CREATEDESKTOPSHORTCUTS="N" INSTALLPRINTER="N" /l*v install.log
```
