content/self-host/rustdesk-server-pro/permissions/_index.en.md, before:

---
title: Access Control
weight: 16
---

### Device access permissions

There are two ways to associate a device with a user:
- Via console device page
- Log in to the specified user account on the client side

The following two situations will prevent the device from being accessed:
- Make device `disable` in console devices page
- Make user `disable` in console user page

The associated device can only be accessed by the devices of the same user or user group, or in correct cross-group settings.

### Cross group settings

Please go to group page in the web console, click on `Edit` to edit cross group settings as below.

Your modifications to `Access with other groups` take effect immediately without requiring you to click the `OK` button.

Both `Can access to` and `Can be accessed from` serve almost the same function, we provide both options for your convenience. However, this may cause some confusion.

{{% notice note %}}
The user and group assigned to the controlling side are determined by the user who logs in, rather than the user who is assigned from the web console. We designed it this way because certain controlling sides do not have a device ID, such as the iOS client and web client.
{{% /notice %}}

![](/docs/en/self-host/rustdesk-server-pro/permissions/images/crossgrp.png)

Commit message:

device group
Signed-off-by: 21pages <sunboeasy@gmail.com>

content/self-host/rustdesk-server-pro/permissions/_index.en.md, after:

---
title: Access Control
weight: 16
---

### Device access permissions

There are two ways to associate a device with a user:
- Via console device page
- Log in to the specified user account on the client side

The following two situations will prevent the device from being accessed:
- Make device `disable` in console devices page
- Make user `disable` in console user page

The associated device can only be accessed by the devices of the same user or user group, or in correct cross-group settings.

### User Group Access Settings

Please go to group page in the web console, click on `Edit` to edit cross group settings as below.

Your modifications to `Access with other groups` take effect immediately without requiring you to click the `OK` button.

Both `Can access to` and `Can be accessed from` serve almost the same function, we provide both options for your convenience. However, this may cause some confusion.

{{% notice note %}}
The user and group assigned to the controlling side are determined by the user who logs in, rather than the user who is assigned from the web console. We designed it this way because certain controlling sides do not have a device ID, such as the iOS client and web client.
{{% /notice %}}

![](/docs/en/self-host/rustdesk-server-pro/permissions/images/crossgrp.png)

### Device Group Access Settings

Device groups provide another way to manage access permissions. Here are the key rules:

1. A device can only be added to one device group
2. You can set access permissions for users or user groups to device groups. These permissions are cumulative with user group access permissions - meaning access is granted if either the user group permissions or device group permissions allow it
3. When an unassigned device is added to a device group, it is no longer considered "unassigned"

{{% notice note %}}
Device group feature requires RustDesk client >= 1.3.8 and RustDesk Server Pro >= 1.5.0
{{% /notice %}}
