content/manual/linux/_index.en.md, before:

---
title: Linux 
weight: 4
---

### Installation

#### Ubuntu (>= 16)

```bash
# please ignore the wrong disk usage report
sudo apt install -fy ./rustdesk-<version>.deb
```

#### CentOS/Fedora (>=18)

```sh
sudo yum localinstall ./rustdesk-<version>.rpm
```

#### Arch/Manjaro

```sh
sudo pacman -U ./rustdesk-<version>.pkg.tar.zst
```

#### Opensuse (>= Leap 15.0)

```sh
sudo zypper install --allow-unsigned-rpm ./rustdesk-<version>-suse.rpm
```

### X11 Required

RustDesk does not support wayland yet; you need switch to X11 manually.

#### Display Server

[Ubuntu](https://askubuntu.com/questions/1260142/ubuntu-set-default-login-desktop) | 
[Fedora](https://docs.fedoraproject.org/en-US/quick-docs/configuring-xorg-as-default-gnome-session/) | 
[Arch](https://bbs.archlinux.org/viewtopic.php?id=218319)

#### Login Screen

Modify below line to `WaylandEnable=false` in `/etc/gdm/custom.conf` or `/etc/gdm3/custom.conf`:

```ini
#WaylandEnable=false
```

{{% notice note %}}
Please **reboot** to make above changes taking effect
{{% /notice %}}

Commit message:

add description for experimental Wayland support

content/manual/linux/_index.en.md, after:

---
title: Linux 
weight: 4
---

### Installation

#### Ubuntu (>= 16)

```bash
# please ignore the wrong disk usage report
sudo apt install -fy ./rustdesk-<version>.deb
```

#### CentOS/Fedora (>=18)

```sh
sudo yum localinstall ./rustdesk-<version>.rpm
```

#### Arch/Manjaro

```sh
sudo pacman -U ./rustdesk-<version>.pkg.tar.zst
```

#### Opensuse (>= Leap 15.0)

```sh
sudo zypper install --allow-unsigned-rpm ./rustdesk-<version>-suse.rpm
```

### ~~X11 Required~~
~~RustDesk does not support wayland yet; you need switch to X11 manually.~~

RustDesk now has experimental Wayland support. You may need to download the nightly version to enable this feature.

#### Display Server

[Ubuntu](https://askubuntu.com/questions/1260142/ubuntu-set-default-login-desktop) | 
[Fedora](https://docs.fedoraproject.org/en-US/quick-docs/configuring-xorg-as-default-gnome-session/) | 
[Arch](https://bbs.archlinux.org/viewtopic.php?id=218319)

#### Login Screen

Modify below line to `WaylandEnable=false` in `/etc/gdm/custom.conf` or `/etc/gdm3/custom.conf`:

```ini
#WaylandEnable=false
```

{{% notice note %}}
Please **reboot** to make above changes taking effect
{{% /notice %}}
